# Web API Developer Challenge

Contacts API“. It’s a simple API, where a user can get a quick overview over all contacts resources
like person, skills...

## • Used technologies


```
Java 1.8
Eclipse
GitHub
Spring Boot 2.1.6.RELEASE
Spring Security
Spring Data JPA
Spring Data Rest
JJWT 0.9.0
Springfox swagger 3.0.0-Snapshot
Lombok 1.18.8
Postman
```

## • UC1 (Contact CRUD)

---
- CRUD endpoint for managing contacts was done [/persons](http://localhost:8080/persons/)
> /login: this additional endpoint allows to register and login a user. Email which contains “admin” will authenticate the user with role ADMIN, otherwise, user will have role USER.

> To be able to call the other endpoints, “Bearer token” should be taken from received header of this /login endpoint and send in the authorization token.

> Email must respect email format (@email validation constraint was implemented).
First name and Last name can’t be null (@NotNull validation constraint)


## • UC2 (Skills CRUD)

---
- CRUD endpoint for managing skills was done [/skills](http://localhost:8080/skills/) and [/skillspersons](http://localhost:8080/skillspersons/)
> First allow creation of skills (by any authenticated user), the second allows to add skills to user. For this last one, only the authenticated user can only add or update skills to himself (even for ADMIN users; they can’t update skills of the users).

> By adding skills, user must choose one of the following expertise level Beginner, Intermediate or Expert).

## • UC3 (Swagger Documentation)

---
- Swagger documentation was available from [/swagger-ui.html]( http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html)
> The version of library I used can’t generate JWT token (it’s only possible through oauth2 server). So it’s not possible to generate the required token from this UI.

> Token could be generated by using POST request to [/login](http://localhost:8080/login), and extract the bearer token from HTTP header, then put it in swagger UI through the button “Authorize”. Once “loggued” by this way, it will be possible to “logout” then “login” with another bearer token”.


## • UC4 (Security)

---
- Authentication [/login](http://localhost:8080/login)
> Authentication was implemented. To make it simple, registration and login are performed in the same operation through “/login” endpoint. Once logged, JWT token will be generated, this token is required to access to the other endpoints.

- Authorization (JWT Token - Header "Authorization", "Bearer") 
> Authorization is managed with the JWT token provided during login process. There are 2 different roles in the application (ADMIN for emails containing “admin” and “USER” for the others). Only “admin” users can list all users. Another restriction was implemented; it allows only logged user to add skills for himself.
